I'm Vicki MacDonald and I'm at Holy Trinity Church, Fandenow, during the Longest Yarn.
I'm talking to Dennis Pointon and he's going to tell me about his uncle Harold.
So I shall pass over to him.
So what can you remember?
Did he have special memories, your uncle?
Can you name him first?
I haven't said his surname.
Oh, Leslie.
Okay.
I only met him a couple of times.
He was very distant to the family when he came from the war.
Things changed a lot for him.
He married Auntie well before the war and he had three children.
And apparently he had a love child later on after the war.
He didn't know anything about it until he died.
And did he know just before he died?
No, after he died.
So he didn't know?
He did, but his children didn't.
He didn't know he had another daughter.
Oh, right.
But that wasn't during the war.
Where was he during the war then?
I'm not sure.
He was with Monty.
And how he got to the GC, I was told often that he was a pillar box
holding a lot of people down, firing at them.
And he managed to get round and under the pillar box
and took his knees in and killed them all off.
Oh, right.
So he is Harold Erdly, BC.
Yes, for Congleton Cheshire.
Oh, wow.
That is just amazing.
And he came home from the war and had another love child.
Did he share his memories about his VC or was he quite quiet about it?
He was very quiet about it.
I didn't know his VC meant for quite so many years after the war.
I was born just after the war as well.
So I was talking to sons a lot
and they corresponded with their dad
because he decided not to live with them anymore.
He got divorced but never married again.
He didn't live with the mother of his love child?
I don't know one, that one.
I'm not sure one.
Let's not ask difficult questions.
Sorry about that.
In Congleton, is there a statue of him?
There is a statue of him with a rifle
and a more...
my demoral stand in Congleton, centre of Congleton.
That's well worth visiting.
Yes.
Gosh.
So has it been written anywhere else about his bravery?
I'm not sure.
I don't know.
I'm not sure if he was with...
I don't think it is some sort of thing
other than the one in Congleton.
Oh, right, OK.
Gosh.
So he must have been phenomenally brave
and he came home, got divorced
and then what did he do?
Did he take up some other employment after the war?
No, I don't think he did.
I'm sure he didn't.
When he came back a bit,
when he came to Congleton after the war
he was a big parade in the town
and he was on top of standing up on a jeep
and everybody was waving and buntings out
and everything, welcoming back.
And it seems so.
He died a death with who he was.
Nobody.
You talk to him about it.
No idea.
If you mention Harold Durdby, VC man,
they wouldn't have a clue.
No, things have got lost, I think, haven't they?
Yeah.
I was going to ask you something about his son.
So can I ask you whether you know where the VC itself is,
where the medal is?
Yes, it was with his son Roy
in Crestarton.
Unfortunately, he's died now
and I don't know where these VC medals come.
Whether his wife still got it, I don't know.
Well, let's hope it's being looked after.
Thank you so much for sharing that memory
about Harold Eardley, VC.
It's good to know that we're remembering him today.
And dochwa yanachy.
Thank you very much indeed.
Thank you both.
Thank you.